# UtubeDown

This is a python script for creating a GUI (graphical user interface) for a Youtube video downloader. It is built using the **tkinter** library for creating the GUI and the **pytube** library for downloading the videos from Youtube. The script also uses the **PIL** (_Python Imaging Library_) and **requests** libraries to display the thumbnail of the video being downloaded and the **io** library to handle the data in bytes.

The script first imports the necessary libraries. A global variable **colour** is defined, which is a string representing a color code for the background color of the GUI. It then creates the main window using the **Tk()** function and sets its dimensions, resizability, icon, title, and background colour. It also adds a **label** at the top of the window with a title for the GUI.

Next, the script defines some variables: **link** (for the Youtube link), **res** (for the resolution of the video), **sub_sel** (for the subtitles), **itag** (a dictionary for storing the itags of the available resolutions), **res_size** (a dictionary for storing the sizes of the available resolutions), **sub_code** (a dictionary for storing the codes for the available subtitles), and **u_link** (to store the user-entered Youtube link).

The script then defines a function called **temp_text** which is bound to the **link_enter** entry widget and clears the text in the widget when it is clicked on. The **link_enter** entry widget is then created and placed on the GUI window.

The script then creates some more widgets: a label called **display_size**, a label called **message**, a label called **tb**, a label called **tit**, and a dropdown menu called **drop**. It also creates a button called **clear_butt** which, when clicked, will clear the current data in the GUI.

The script then defines a function called **clear** which is bound to the **clear_butt** button. This function resets the values of the **res** and **sub_sel** variables, and the **itag**, **res_size**, and **sub_code** dictionaries. It also repositions the **link_enter** entry widget and removes the **tb**, **tit**, **display_size**, and **clear_butt** widgets from the GUI window. It also clears the user-entered link in the **link_enter** entry widget.

The script then defines a function called **download** which is used to download the selected video or subtitle. If a resolution is selected, the script uses the **pytube** library to download the video using the itag of the selected resolution. If a subtitle is selected, the script downloads the subtitle using the **caption** object from the **pytube** library and the code of the selected subtitle. If neither a resolution nor a subtitle is selected, a message is displayed on the GUI asking the user to select a resolution or subtitle.

The script then defines a function called **f_size** which updates the **display_size** label with the size of the selected resolution. This function is called whenever the **res** variable is updated.

The script then defines a function called **get_res** which is used to get the available resolutions and audio bitrate for the selected Youtube video. It first checks if the user has entered a link, and if not, displays an error message. If a link has been entered, the script uses the **pytube** library to get the video object for the link and then gets the available resolutions and audio bitrate for the video. It then stores the itags and sizes for the available resolutions and audio bitrate in the **itag** and **res_size**, respectively. The script then creates a dropdown menu using the **OptionMenu** widget and populates it with the available resolutions/audio bitrate.

Then the last function called **get_sub** is used to get the available subtitles for the selected Youtube video. It first checks if the user has entered a link, and if not, displays an error message. If a link has been entered, the script uses the pytube library to get the subtitle for the link and then gets the available subtitle for the video, if found. It then stores the itags and codes for the available subtitles in the **sub_list** and **sub_code** dictionaries, respectively. The script then creates a dropdown menu using the **OptionMenu** widget and populates it with the available subtitles. If there are no subtitles for the YouTube video it shows an error message stating that no subtitles found.
